
The blog post you shared discusses setting up SearXNG, a privacy-focused metasearch engine, on a VPS. Here's a summary of the key points and some additional context:

Overview of SearXNG
What It Is: SearXNG is an open-source metasearch engine that aggregates results from multiple search engines like DuckDuckGo, Google, Bing, and more. It prioritizes user privacy and doesn’t track or profile users.
Usage: It can be accessed publicly, and there's an example instance at searx.space.
Installation Details
Setup Instructions:

Systemd File: A configuration file for running SearXNG with Gunicorn, a Python WSGI HTTP Server.
Gunicorn Config: Settings for managing Gunicorn, including worker processes and threads.
Caddyfile: A reverse proxy configuration for Caddy, a modern web server. The setup includes basic authentication to restrict access.
Client TLS Consideration:

Client TLS: A method for a server to authenticate the clients it communicates with. However, Cloudflare doesn’t support using a custom CA for Client TLS unless you’re an enterprise customer. This caused issues when the author tried to implement it.
Client TLS Certificate Script:

Purpose: Provides scripts for generating client certificates for authentication.
Details: Includes a Bash script and an Expect script to automate the creation of certificates.
Additional Insights
Why SearXNG? The author switched from DuckDuckGo due to issues like shuffled search results and privacy concerns.
Pros of SearXNG: Aggregates results from multiple search engines, respects privacy, and can be used over Tor.
Challenges: Encountered issues with Qwant (a search engine) not being available in their region and complications with Cloudflare’s Client TLS implementation.
Closing Thoughts
The author seems satisfied with SearXNG overall, despite a few issues and challenges in setup. They find it a worthwhile alternative to traditional search engines that might not offer the same level of privacy.

If you have specific questions or need further details about any part of the setup or SearXNG’s features, feel free to ask!



Вы сказали:
how do i set up searxng on my AWS server and then link it up to my website https://otto.realityincllc.com
ChatGPT сказал:
ChatGPT
Setting up SearXNG on an AWS server and linking it to your website involves several steps. Here’s a comprehensive guide to get you started:

1. Set Up an AWS EC2 Instance
Log in to AWS Management Console:

Go to the AWS EC2 Dashboard.
Launch a New Instance:

Click “Launch Instance.”
Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI). For simplicity, you can use an Ubuntu Server AMI.
Choose an instance type. The t2.micro instance is sufficient for a basic setup, but you can choose a more powerful instance if needed.
Configure the instance details, add storage, and configure security group settings. Ensure that you open port 80 (HTTP) and port 443 (HTTPS) in the security group to allow web traffic.
Review and launch the instance. Download the key pair if you don’t already have one.
Connect to Your Instance:

Use SSH to connect to your instance:
bash
Копировать код
ssh -i "your-key-pair.pem" ubuntu@your-ec2-public-dns
2. Install Dependencies
Update and Install Required Packages:

bash
Копировать код
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
sudo apt install python3-pip python3-venv git
Clone the SearXNG Repository:

bash
Копировать код
git clone https://github.com/searxng/searxng.git
cd searxng
Set Up a Python Virtual Environment:

bash
Копировать код
python3 -m venv searxng-env
source searxng-env/bin/activate
Install SearXNG Dependencies:

bash
Копировать код
pip install -r requirements.txt
3. Configure and Run SearXNG
Create a Configuration File:

Copy the sample configuration file and edit it as needed:
bash
Копировать код
cp searxng/settings.yml.example searxng/settings.yml
nano searxng/settings.yml
Configure settings such as search_engines, secret_key, etc.
Run SearXNG:

bash
Копировать код
python searxng/webapp.py
SearXNG should now be running on port 8080 by default. You can verify this by accessing http://your-ec2-public-dns:8080 in your browser.
4. Set Up a Reverse Proxy with Caddy
Install Caddy:

bash
Копировать код
curl -fsSL https://getcaddy.com | bash
Configure Caddy:

Create or edit the Caddyfile:
bash
Копировать код
sudo nano /etc/caddy/Caddyfile
Add the following configuration to reverse proxy to SearXNG:
css
Копировать код
https://otto.realityincllc.com {
    reverse_proxy localhost:8080
    tls you@example.com
}
Start Caddy:

bash
Копировать код
sudo systemctl start caddy
sudo systemctl enable caddy
5. Link Your Domain
Update DNS Records:

Go to your domain registrar’s DNS management panel.
Create an A record for otto.realityincllc.com pointing to the public IP address of your EC2 instance.
Verify DNS Propagation:

It may take some time for DNS changes to propagate. You can use tools like WhatsMyDNS to check if the domain points to your EC2 instance.
6. (Optional) Set Up HTTPS
If you used Caddy’s tls directive in the Caddyfile, it will automatically obtain and renew SSL certificates via Let’s Encrypt.
7. Troubleshooting
Check Logs: If SearXNG or Caddy is not working as expected, check their respective logs for errors.
Firewall Rules: Ensure that the AWS security group settings and any local firewalls are correctly configured to allow traffic on the necessary ports.
By following these steps, you should have SearXNG running on your AWS EC2 instance and accessible via your domain otto.realityincllc.com. If you encounter specific issues, feel free to ask for further assistance! 
